<!-- -*- mode: markdown -*- -->

clusterd-monitor(1) -- clusterd high-availability monitoring daemon
===================================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`clusterd-monitor` -vh [-P PORT] [-b ADDR] [-n ATTEMPTS] [-t TIMEOUT]

## DESCRIPTION

`clusterd-monitor` is the high-availibility monitoring daemon of the
clusterd(7) suite. It listens on a UDP socket for monitor requests
from service instances. Instances send these requests to indicate that
they're still active. If an active service fails to send a request
within a given timeframe, the service will be considered *degraded*. A
service will enter the active state again once a configurable number
of monitor requests occur on time. Otherwise it will remain in the
degraded state. A degraded service that receives no monitor requests
for some time will be deleted. A clusterd-service-doctor(1) job will
be started to attempt to repair the service.

## OPTIONS

* `-P` <port>:
  Bind the given port for subsequent `-b` options. If no `-b` options
  are given then, bind all interfaces on this host
* `-b` <addr>:
  Bind the given interface on the host. If address is `0.0.0.0` or
  `::`, then all interfaces are bound.
* `-n` <number>:
  The number of consecutive monitor requests that must be received on
  time before a service will be considered active again.
* `-t` <seconds>:
  The max amount of time a service may remain in the degraded state
  before being considered unresponsive and starting the service doctor
* `-v`:
  Display verbose debug output
* `-h`:
  Print the help section

## ENVIRONMENT

* `CLUSTERD_SERVICE_DOCTOR`:
  The path to the clusterd-service-doctor(1) executable

## COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2021 F Omega Enterprises LLC

## SEE ALSO

clusterd(7), clusterd-service-doctor(1)
