<!-- -*- mode: markdown -*- -->

clusterd-supervise(1) -- clusterd service host
============================================

## SYNOPSIS

`clusterd-service` -vhf -n NAMESPACE-ID -s SERVICE-ID
  [-m ADDRESS:PORT...] /path/to/service/directory

## DESCRIPTION

The `clusterd-service` daemon hosts the clusterd(7) service specified
by the service directory. The service directory should follow the
clusterd-service(7) directory layout.

Upon startup `clusterd-service` will parse and apply the options in
the `options` file (see clusterd-options(7) for more information on
the format of this file). Then, it will launch the `prepare` script,
which should download any dependencies for the service. If `prepare`
fails, it will be launched according to the retry policy. Once
`prepare` succeeds, the `start` script is called and a new service
instance is registered in the controller with the given monitors.

## OPTIONS

* `-n` <namespace>:
  The namespace ID of this instance
* `-s` <service>:
  The service ID to run in this instance
* `-m` <address>:
  The colon-separated address and port of a monitor node this service
  should send monitor requests to. You must specify at least one
  monitor, and it must be on a remote machine, unless `-f` is specified
* `-f`:
  Run the service container no matter what. Useful for testing.
* `-v`:
  Display verbose debug output

## ENVIRONMENT

* `CLUSTERD_CONTROLLER`:
   A comma-separated list of all controllers on this clusterd(7) configuration

## COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2021 F Omega Enterprises LLC

## SEE ALSO

clusterd(7), clusterd-monitor(1), clusterd-launch(1)
