<!-- -*- mode: markdown -*- -->

clusterd-ns(1) -- clusterd namespace manager
============================================

## SYNOPSIS

`clusterd-ns` -vch (-D | -A) [NAMEORID]...

## DESCRIPTION

`clusterd-ns` creates, removes, or retrieves a clusterd namespace,
which is a logical grouping of services with similar permissions.

## OPTIONS

* `-D`:
   Delete the namespaces with the given name or ID
* `-A`:
  Create new namespaces. If names are given on the command line, the
  namespaces are assigned these labels. The new namespace ID is
  printed to stdout. If no name is given, then one, unnamed namespace
  is created.
* `-c`:
  Require that output be consistent. Without this option `clusterd-ns`
  will return faster but results may not be completely up-to-date.
* `-v`:
  Display verbose debug output.

If given no options, `clusterd-ns` lists all namespaces. If given
names or IDs as arguments, then `clusterd-ns` retrieves and displays
information only about those namespaces.

Note that `-v`, `-D` and `-A` must come before any namespace names.

## ENVIRONMENT

* `CLUSTERD_CONTROLLER`:
   A comma-separated list of all controllers on this clusterd(7) configuration

## EXAMPLES

To list all namespaces, just run `clusterd-ns`.

To create a namespace named `apache`:

```
clusterd-ns -A apache
```

To delete the namespace:

```
clusterd-ns -D apache
```

To display information about the namespace:

```
clusterd-ns apache
```

## COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2021 F Omega Enterprises LLC

## SEE ALSO

clusterd(7), clusterd-controller(1), clusterd-launch(1)
