<!-- -*- mode: markdown -*- -->

clusterd-rollcall(1) -- clusterd node attendance script
=======================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`clusterd-rollcall` -vh [-i ID] [-H HOSTNAME-OVERRIDE] [-A IP-OVERRIDE]

## DESCIRPTION

The `clusterd-rollcall` script collects information about the current
node's resources and sends it to the clusterd-controller(1). You
should call `clusterd-rollcall` on every node you want to participate
in your cluster. Its actions are idempotent, and you can call it as
often as you'd like. To reduce unnecessary network traffic and CPU
usage though, it's best to limit it to the following circumstances:

* Upon boot, to register the node as being alive
* Upon a device change (such as hard drive, CPU, or memory
  hotplug). It is typically safe to register it to run in a catch-all
  udev rule
* Upon changes to the node's configuration (hostname or IP)

## EXTENSIBILITY

`clusterd-rollcall` is meant to be used as a base off of which
implementors build their own custom roll call scripts. By default,
`clusterd-rollcall` will run all scripts in
`$CLUSTERD_CONFIG_DIR/rollcall.d`. These scripts should collect system
resource inventory and report them to stdout as tab-separated values
of the form:

```
resource-name <TAB> numeric-value
```

The resource names should be the identifiers of resources already
created in the clusterd-controller.

The clusterd source distribution comes with script examples in the
`presets` directory that contain scripts to collect Linux CPU data,
memory, and virtualization support. You should define additional
scripts as needed.

Scripts should send their debug output to stderr. If the
`CLUSTERD_VERBOSE` environment variable is set, then verbose debug
output of resource discovery should be sent to stderr.

If the `CLUSTERD_HELP` environment variable is set, a help menu ought
to be printed to stdout.

If the `CLUSTERD_DISCOVERY` environment variable is set, summary of
the kinds of resources collected ought to be printed to stdout.

The environment variable `CLUSTERD_OPTIONS` is set to the entirety of
the `clusterd-rollcall` command line for scripts to parse as they see
fit.

`$CLUSTERD_CONFIG_DIR/rollcall.d` scripts are run in alphabetical order. Use
whatever system you'd like to order them.

## OPTIONS

* `-i` <ID>:
  By default, the node will be registered under a unique ID generated
  based off of the MAC address of the interface serving the node
  IP. This ID will be stored in `$CLUSTERD_CONFIG_DIR/id`. Use this option
  to override that behavior.
* `-h` <HOSTNAME>:
  By default, the node hostname will be derived using the hostname(1)
  command. If you want to set a custom hostname for whatever reason,
  then use this.
* `-A` <IP-OVERRIDE>:
  By default, `clusterd-rollcall` will determine the node IP by using
  the route used to connect to the clusterd controllers (as given in
  the `CLUSTERD_CONTROLLER` environment variable, see below).
* `-v`:
  Display verbose debug output
* `-h`:
  Print help, including help for any installed modules

## ENVIRONMENT

* `CLUSTERD_CONTROLLER`:
  A comma-separated list of all controllers in this clusterd(7) configuration
* `CLUSTERD_CONFIG_DIR`:
  A directory containing the clusterd configuration

## COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2021 F Omega Enterprises LLC

## SEE ALSO

clusterd(7), clusterd-controller(1)
